
The Causer, Tonra, & Wallace article makes an interesting point about using Mturk for crowdsourcing. In my experience using Mturk, the monetary incentive is almost non existent with most tasks paying next to nothing. This supports the point about the motivations for transcribing being more related to a call to action and a way to make a contribution that will help someone later down the line. This seems like a similar idea to some of the research studies offered to students at Carleton. In a few of my first year classes, there was an optional 2% bonus credit available if students chose to participate in select research studies being conducted at Carleton. I'm not sure if this already exists, but a similar program for transcription might be an effective way both digitize more historical records, as well as offer history students the chance to work with primary sources and learn about digital history.


The Causer, Tonra, & Wallace Article makes another good point about how daunting it likely is for volunteers to both transcribe these documents as well as navigate the process of encoding their transcripts. This relates back to the intro of the class and how there is no such thing as a 'techy' person, however it does mean that volunteers have to be willing and able to reach out to someone that can help them if they are stuck. without this the quality of their contributions would be questionable, hence the need for quality control staff.

The article also discusses the popularity of 'Transcribe Bentham' and how this may be linked to the nature of the data being transcribed. I believe this could present an obstacle when crowdsourcing other types of materials. If it is true that volunteers are motivated by their connection with the material and the perceived value of their contributions, it might take more resources to inspire someone to transcribe data that is disconnected from anything of interest for them. An analogy might be the difference between transcribing a Table of contents versus a Copyright page. It is not that there is *no* value in a copyright page, but for a volunteer who may have no interest in the books publishing history, permissions, acknowledgments etc. it may be much less compelling than the whole contents of the book laid out in a table of contents.

When the article discusses the data they put into excel to analyze the final four months of the Mellon Foundation-funded period, It was easier to understand the value of this data after having *wrangled* some in our tutorials for this week. This also ties in with the article 'THE SOFT DIGITAL HISTORY THAT UNDERPINS MY BOOK' and the way they manipulated their data to see a trend, and consequently the criticism they received for omitting the maps demonstrating this along with their thought process.


P.S. I hope the connections I made with the course material came through okay in this reflection. My 8 month old son has been yelling *Loudly* behind me while I have been writing... while I appreciate his enthusiasm it does make it a bit trickier to write. Not making excuses for my work, I just thought you might like to know that babies are apparently very passionate about this stuff.

Tim
